readme.md, before:

<!--lint disable double-link-->
# Awesome Research Software Engineering FAIR [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

A curated awesome list of FAIR topics for Research Software Engineering (RSE). Inspired by [these curated collections](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome). Topics cover citation and licensing of RS, metadata for RS, publication of RS, registries and repositories for RS, and search engines to find RS.

**About//** &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Contributing](contributing.md)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[HIFIS](https://hifis.net)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Awesome](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

**Sub lists//**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Educational Resources](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-education)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Communities](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-communities)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[FAIR](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-fair)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Policies & Guidelines](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-policies)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Science](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-science)

## Contents
- [FAIR in general](#fair-in-general)
- [Citation](#citation)
- [Licensing](#licensing)
- [Metadata](#metadata)
- [Publication](#publication)
- [Repositories](#repositories)
- [Search Engines](#search-engines)
- [Related Lists](#related-lists)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

## FAIR in general
Tools and stuff that addresses FAIR as a whole.
- [FAIR Principles for Research Software (FAIR4RS Principles)](https://rd-alliance.org/group/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg/outcomes/fair-principles-research-software-fair4rs-0) - recommendations of the [RDA](https://rd-alliance.org).
- [howfairis](https://github.com/fair-software/howfairis) - Python package to analyze a GitHub or GitLab repository's compliance with the [fair-software.eu](https://fair-software.eu) recommendations.

## Citation
Resources about how to cite research software and how to make research software citable

- [How to cite software: current best practice.](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2842910) - A starter presentation on software citation.
- [Research Software Citation: Cite and Make Citable](https://cite.research-software.org/) - Background information on software citation in research.

### Tools
Tools that assist you in citing research software.
- [CiteAs](http://citeas.org/) - Tool that helps by how to cite research software (and other research outcomes).
- [shouldacite](https://mr-c.github.io/shouldacite/index.html) - Guidance on whether and how a software should be cited.

## Licensing

- [A Quick Guide to Software Licensing for the Scientist-Programmer](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002598) - Detailed article about software licenses and obligations.
- [DLR Open Source Broschure](https://www.dlr.de/tm/PortalData/43/Resources/dokumente/tm_dokumente/OpenSource-Software_DLR_2022.pdf) - Licensing explained in detail with particular focus on German law (German only).
- [Free Software Definition](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html.en) - Free Software Definition including remarks to licensing.
- [Open Source Licenses by Category](https://opensource.org/licenses/category) - OSI approved licenses sorted by category.
- [REUSE Specification](https://reuse.software/spec/) - Standardized method for declaring copyright and licensing for software projects.
- [Software Licenses in Plain English](https://tldrlegal.com/) - Overview about software licenses including granted right and obligations.
- [SPDX Specification](https://spdx.dev/specifications/) - The official SPDX specification.
- [The Open Source Definition](https://opensource.org/osd) - Open Source Definition including remarks to licensing.

### Tools
- [choosealicense](https://choosealicense.com/) - Helps you choose the software license that suits your needs.
- [Reuse Tool](https://reuse.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - Automate the declaring of copyright and licensing for software projects with SPDX Tags.
- [SPDX License List](https://spdx.org/licenses/) - A list of all licenses supported by SPDX.


## Metadata
This is where we list information about metadata for research software

- [Citation File Format (CFF)](https://citation-file-format.github.io/) - A machine-readable but simple software citation fomrmat with supported by GitHub, Zenodo and, Zotero.
- [CFFINIT generator](https://citation-file-format.github.io/cff-initializer-javascript/#/) - Generate your citation metadata files with ease.
- [CodeMeta Project](https://codemeta.github.io/index.html) - Definitions of metadata for software projects.
- [DOAP - Description Of A Project](https://github.com/ewilderj/doap)
- [EDAM Ontology (Bioinformatics)](http://edamontology.org/page)
- [Asset Description Metadata Schema for Software (ADMS.SW)](https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/svn/adms_foss/adms_sw_v1.00/adms_sw_v1.00.htm)
- [Schema.org - SoftwareSourceCode](https://schema.org/SoftwareSourceCode)
- [Schema.org - SoftwareApplication](https://schema.org/SoftwareApplication)

### Tools
Tools that assist you in handling metadata for research software.
- [CodeMeta generator](https://codemeta.github.io/codemeta-generator/) - Generate useful metadata for your software.
- [SOMEF](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/somef) - Software Metadata Extraction Framework. A command line interface for automatically extracting relevant information from readme files.
- [FAIR python cookiecutter](https://github.com/Materials-Data-Science-and-Informatics/fair-python-cookiecutter) - An opinionated cookiecutter template to kickstart a modern best-practice Python project with FAIR metadata.
- [SOMESY](https://github.com/Materials-Data-Science-and-Informatics/somesy) - Somesy (software metadata sync) is a CLI tool to avoid messy software project metadata by keeping it in sync.

## Publication
Resources about publishing research software.

- [In which journals should I publish my software?](https://www.software.ac.uk/which-journals-should-i-publish-my-software) - Overview of Software Journals.

### Tools
Tools that assist you in publishing your research software.
- [HERMES](https://project.software-metadata.pub/) - To streamline software publication, this project develops automated workflows to publish research software with rich metadata.
- [Zenodo github integration](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/archiving-a-github-repository/referencing-and-citing-content) - Use Zenodo to quickly publish your softwrae repository on github and issue a DOI for your software

## Repositories
- [Awesome Research Software Registries](https://github.com/NLeSC/awesome-research-software-registries) - List of the Netherlands eScience Center about Research Software Registries.
- [SciCodes](https://scicodes.net/outreach-materials/) - Consortium of scientific software registries and repositories.

## Search Engines
Search engines with options to explicitly search for software.

- [BASE: Document type = Software](https://www.base-search.net/Search/Results?type=all&lookfor=doctype%3A6&ling=0&oaboost=1&name=&thes=&refid=dcresen&newsearch=1)
- [DataCite: resource-type-id=software](https://search.datacite.org/works?query=&resource-type-id=software)
- [WorldWideScience: Results Tab: Data/Software](https://worldwidescience.org/)

## Related Lists
- [Awesome FAIR](https://github.com/Materials-Data-Science-and-Informatics/awesome-fair)
- [Awesome Open Science](https://github.com/ZoranPandovski/awesome-open-science)

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.

Commit message:

Change Hermes Project to point to Hermes workflow docs

readme.md, after:

<!--lint disable double-link-->
# Awesome Research Software Engineering FAIR [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

A curated awesome list of FAIR topics for Research Software Engineering (RSE). Inspired by [these curated collections](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome). Topics cover citation and licensing of RS, metadata for RS, publication of RS, registries and repositories for RS, and search engines to find RS.

**About//** &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Contributing](contributing.md)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[HIFIS](https://hifis.net)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Awesome](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

**Sub lists//**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Educational Resources](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-education)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Communities](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-communities)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[FAIR](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-fair)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Policies & Guidelines](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-policies)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Science](https://github.com/hifis-net/awesome-rse-science)

## Contents
- [FAIR in general](#fair-in-general)
- [Citation](#citation)
- [Licensing](#licensing)
- [Metadata](#metadata)
- [Publication](#publication)
- [Repositories](#repositories)
- [Search Engines](#search-engines)
- [Related Lists](#related-lists)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

## FAIR in general
Tools and stuff that addresses FAIR as a whole.
- [FAIR Principles for Research Software (FAIR4RS Principles)](https://rd-alliance.org/group/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg/outcomes/fair-principles-research-software-fair4rs-0) - recommendations of the [RDA](https://rd-alliance.org).
- [howfairis](https://github.com/fair-software/howfairis) - Python package to analyze a GitHub or GitLab repository's compliance with the [fair-software.eu](https://fair-software.eu) recommendations.

## Citation
Resources about how to cite research software and how to make research software citable

- [How to cite software: current best practice.](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2842910) - A starter presentation on software citation.
- [Research Software Citation: Cite and Make Citable](https://cite.research-software.org/) - Background information on software citation in research.

### Tools
Tools that assist you in citing research software.
- [CiteAs](http://citeas.org/) - Tool that helps by how to cite research software (and other research outcomes).
- [shouldacite](https://mr-c.github.io/shouldacite/index.html) - Guidance on whether and how a software should be cited.

## Licensing

- [A Quick Guide to Software Licensing for the Scientist-Programmer](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002598) - Detailed article about software licenses and obligations.
- [DLR Open Source Broschure](https://www.dlr.de/tm/PortalData/43/Resources/dokumente/tm_dokumente/OpenSource-Software_DLR_2022.pdf) - Licensing explained in detail with particular focus on German law (German only).
- [Free Software Definition](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html.en) - Free Software Definition including remarks to licensing.
- [Open Source Licenses by Category](https://opensource.org/licenses/category) - OSI approved licenses sorted by category.
- [REUSE Specification](https://reuse.software/spec/) - Standardized method for declaring copyright and licensing for software projects.
- [Software Licenses in Plain English](https://tldrlegal.com/) - Overview about software licenses including granted right and obligations.
- [SPDX Specification](https://spdx.dev/specifications/) - The official SPDX specification.
- [The Open Source Definition](https://opensource.org/osd) - Open Source Definition including remarks to licensing.

### Tools
- [choosealicense](https://choosealicense.com/) - Helps you choose the software license that suits your needs.
- [Reuse Tool](https://reuse.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - Automate the declaring of copyright and licensing for software projects with SPDX Tags.
- [SPDX License List](https://spdx.org/licenses/) - A list of all licenses supported by SPDX.


## Metadata
This is where we list information about metadata for research software

- [Citation File Format (CFF)](https://citation-file-format.github.io/) - A machine-readable but simple software citation fomrmat with supported by GitHub, Zenodo and, Zotero.
- [CFFINIT generator](https://citation-file-format.github.io/cff-initializer-javascript/#/) - Generate your citation metadata files with ease.
- [CodeMeta Project](https://codemeta.github.io/index.html) - Definitions of metadata for software projects.
- [DOAP - Description Of A Project](https://github.com/ewilderj/doap)
- [EDAM Ontology (Bioinformatics)](http://edamontology.org/page)
- [Asset Description Metadata Schema for Software (ADMS.SW)](https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/svn/adms_foss/adms_sw_v1.00/adms_sw_v1.00.htm)
- [Schema.org - SoftwareSourceCode](https://schema.org/SoftwareSourceCode)
- [Schema.org - SoftwareApplication](https://schema.org/SoftwareApplication)

### Tools
Tools that assist you in handling metadata for research software.
- [CodeMeta generator](https://codemeta.github.io/codemeta-generator/) - Generate useful metadata for your software.
- [SOMEF](https://github.com/KnowledgeCaptureAndDiscovery/somef) - Software Metadata Extraction Framework. A command line interface for automatically extracting relevant information from readme files.
- [FAIR python cookiecutter](https://github.com/Materials-Data-Science-and-Informatics/fair-python-cookiecutter) - An opinionated cookiecutter template to kickstart a modern best-practice Python project with FAIR metadata.
- [SOMESY](https://github.com/Materials-Data-Science-and-Informatics/somesy) - Somesy (software metadata sync) is a CLI tool to avoid messy software project metadata by keeping it in sync.

## Publication
Resources about publishing research software.

- [In which journals should I publish my software?](https://www.software.ac.uk/which-journals-should-i-publish-my-software) - Overview of Software Journals.

### Tools
Tools that assist you in publishing your research software.
- [HERMES Workflow](https://docs.software-metadata.pub/en/latest/) - The HERMES workflow enables automated publication of rich research software metadata and artifacts to publication repositories using open source tooling.
- [Zenodo github integration](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/archiving-a-github-repository/referencing-and-citing-content) - Use Zenodo to quickly publish your softwrae repository on github and issue a DOI for your software

## Repositories
- [Awesome Research Software Registries](https://github.com/NLeSC/awesome-research-software-registries) - List of the Netherlands eScience Center about Research Software Registries.
- [SciCodes](https://scicodes.net/outreach-materials/) - Consortium of scientific software registries and repositories.

## Search Engines
Search engines with options to explicitly search for software.

- [BASE: Document type = Software](https://www.base-search.net/Search/Results?type=all&lookfor=doctype%3A6&ling=0&oaboost=1&name=&thes=&refid=dcresen&newsearch=1)
- [DataCite: resource-type-id=software](https://search.datacite.org/works?query=&resource-type-id=software)
- [WorldWideScience: Results Tab: Data/Software](https://worldwidescience.org/)

## Related Lists
- [Awesome FAIR](https://github.com/Materials-Data-Science-and-Informatics/awesome-fair)
- [Awesome Open Science](https://github.com/ZoranPandovski/awesome-open-science)

## Contribute

Contributions welcome! Read the [contribution guidelines](contributing.md) first.
